Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam
Inspirations," coming to you
from our beautiful Los Angeles
studio.
So what would it
be like if we could
all work together in the name
of consciousness and community?
What would it be like if we
really knew the deep meaning
of oneness, and we approached
our lives from that perspective
all the time?
Well, these are the views
and the mission of the award
winning producer director Mikki
Willis, founder of Elevate,
a transformational
company designed
for socially conscious media.
Welcome to the show, Mikki.
Thank you for being here
Thank you so much
for having me.
It's great to have you.
Now you have an amazing story of
how you came about all of this.
What was the kind of
pivotal moment in your life
that really got you
started on your path?
Well, the full story
really was that in 2000,
I directed my
first feature film.
And I was in New York
working out a distribution
deal for that film.
So you already were in media.
I've been in media
for quite a while.
I was in front of the camera.
I was an actor, and
then an acting teacher
for a number of years.
Oh, I didn't know that.
From a pretty young age, yeah.
And then I started directing.
I had a theater just
right around the corner
here, in Los Angeles,
that I directed and built
when I was 23 years old.
LISA GARR: Oh, you're kidding!
Yeah, it was a really,
really incredible experience.
In NoHo.
In North Hollywood.
-Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Right.
And so I found myself,
in 2000, finishing up
my first feature film.
And then in 2001, by the
time that it was completely
finished, we were
traveling around
to secure a distribution deal.
And that led me to New York.
And what happened was, I
had a meeting on 9/10/2001.
You can kind of--
LISA GARR: September 10, 2001.
---imagine what was coming up.
And I went to the World Trade
Center for the first time
as a tourist on 9/10.
Now this was after a friend
of mine, a producer friend
of mine-- we had dinner
on 9/9, and suddenly
found out that I
had never visited
the World Trade Center before.
And he became totally
obsessed with having
me go to the World Trade
Center before I left New York.
I was scheduled to
fly out on 9/11.
So much that it literally
ruined the dinner.
I mean, that's all
he would talk about.
He wrote down a map of
what subway to take.
And he was just completely one
track mind, the whole time.
Not even listening or having
fun with any of the stories,
but just kept reminding
me all dinner--
are you really going to go?
Are you going to go see
the World Trade Center?
LISA GARR: Really?
-Yeah.
LISA GARR: How bizarre.
And so I finally said,
Doug, why do you care if I
go to the World Trade Center?
And he said one of the
most bizarre things
that, now in retrospect, that
I can imagine him saying,
which was, he said, go up and
look at the view from the top
and do the tourist thing.
And it's pretty extraordinary.
But I want you to look at the
buildings from the ground.
And I want you to
just understand
what an incredible monolithic
structure this is, built
by man, and what a joke it
was that they tried to take
them down a few years ago.
This is what he said to me.
This was his exact words.
Wow.
Because if you remember,
there was a bomb
that had gone off in the
basement of the World Trade
Center a few years before.
And I just started-- I
laughed, and I said, why
do you want me to-- OK, Doug.
Would you have to change your
flight in order to do that?
No, I was scheduled to
head to fly out about one
o'clock that day, on the 11th.
LISA GARR: OK.
And so as a tourist, I went
to the World Trade Center,
and then I stood at the bottom,
and I took a picture of me
just to prove to
Doug that I actually
went to see this
incredible spectacle that
was the World Trade Center.
And the next morning,
I was actually
staying at Doug's house.
The next morning, he woke me
up by slapping me on the foot.
And I opened my eyes,
and I looked at him.
And he was just pale white.
LISA GARR: Oh, wow.
And he was pointing to the TV,
which he had just turned on.
So it was just turning on.
And he said, they bombed us.
They bombed us.
And now I'm thinking,
wait a second here.
Doug produces the Howard Stern
Show, which I didn't mention.
Howard Stern is a
big practical joker.
Doug wanted me to go into
the World Trade Center,
would they be doing
something crazy like this.
And so I said, I need proof.
Let's go on the roof.
Went to the roof
of his building,
and we could look at it
and see what was happening.
LISA GARR: Oh my god.
And in that moment, to
make a long story shorter,
I said, I have to go down there.
How did you say that?
I mean, most people
would have run--
and most people did-- run
the opposite direction.
Well, yeah, I think
a lot of people
would have done what we did.
And that's pretty much
what caused my awakening,
was to see how the human spirit
really reacts under something
that's so much bigger than
all of our-- the stuff
that we're trapped in.
The identities,
and the addictions,
and all the stuff that
we think is important,
that when you have an
experience like that,
you realign with reality
in a new way, such
that you start to really focus
on what's really important,
which is our relationships,
and our families,
and that's the only stuff
that really counts, right?
LISA GARR: Yeah.
But anyway, we went down.
Doug said, I was just
thinking the same thing.
And we went down to Ground Zero.
And he had these media
badges that just confused
the authorities that were trying
to figure out who belongs there
and who doesn't belong there.
And they looked at our badges
and went, oh, OK, come on,
come on in.
Do your thing.
And so we spent 72 hours
first, feeding firefighters
and washing out their
eyes, and taking care
of all of the rescue squads.
And then, when the
Red Cross came in,
they allowed us to suit up and
to continue doing the search
and rescue efforts
and body recovery.
It didn't-- wow.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
It didn't matter who
or where you came.
If you were willing
to help, you were--
MIKKI WILLIS:
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
Oh my goodness.
And what happened for me,
in that experience-- up
until that point, I could say
that I was pursuing a pretty
ordinary path, which
was, I was in Hollywood,
and I was working
very hard to make it.
And making it means trying to--
whatever it takes to get there,
even if that means
trampling on someone else,
or your fellow filmmakers.
It's like, you really
want to be on top.
And there was a part of
me that had that drive,
that drive to be the best.
So it was a very selfish
pursuit, actually.
And what had happened to me
was, after our first 50 hours
or so of being in
this experience--
Wait, dive into
that for a second.
I mean, you're in--
you're recovering bodies.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
That's right.
What was that like for you?
I mean, this is
obviously something
you've never done before.
You were picking up
bodies out of the rubble
and bringing them into an area?
Well, they were-- it was kind
of a chain gang of people.
So we would pass them down,
and they would be put into body
bags and taken to the morgue.
Yeah.
And so as you can
imagine, it's-- not
to downplay it at all.
It was an extraordinary
experience, and one that,
when we were finally
told to go take a nap,
because everyone had been
up for a couple of days.
And the people that had finally
taken charge of the area
were aware that it was dangerous
to have anyone sleep deprived,
working around heavy machinery.
And so I went to take my
first nap in two days or so,
and I had a nightmare.
I probably was sleeping
for five minutes,
and I had a flashback, a
nightmare of the first body
that we found.
-Of course, that's traumatic.
Yeah, and I woke up,
and my heart was racing.
And I woke up, and
my heart was racing.
And the words came through
me that kind of startled me.
And that was just this voice
came out of nowhere that said,
this could be your Vietnam, or--
and it just left me hanging.
And I thought, wow,
what does that mean?
LISA GARR: There's "or."
And I sat there for a little
while, and I thought, oh wow.
My experience of
Vietnam vets had
been that the ones
that I had witnessed
were on street
corners with signs.
And I thought, had I
experienced too much already?
Does this damage my physical
body somehow, that I will
never be able to recover from?
Like, should I be here?
Maybe I shouldn't be
doing what I'm doing here.
And so I said, so
what's the "or"?
LISA GARR: Yeah.
So that's one possible choice,
but what's the "or" mean?
And so now my whole
system is racing,
and I just decided,
I can't sleep,
and I'm going to go back
out into the rubble,
and I'm going to find
out what that means.
And as I rounded the corner,
by the time I was taking a nap,
they had erected a new
football stadium lighting
that had been brought in.
So now, I'm a cinematographer,
and I love light.
And so I rounded the corner,
and my first thought was,
like, wow, this is beautiful.
And then it just hit me.
I thought, I can't
say that about this.
Can I call this
situation beautiful?
And I stopped just long
enough to consider that.
Can this be beautiful?
This is the most horrific
thing I've ever experienced.
Right.
But that moment got
expanded in your mind.
MIKKI WILLIS: Just by
asking myself that question,
is it OK for me to look at
this situation as beautiful?
It's anything but that.
-Right.
Yeah.
And I stood there,
and then I suddenly
became aware of something
I hadn't thought of up
until that point, which was,
the entire world right now, most
of it, is thinking about
and focused on the very spot
in which I'm standing.
And suddenly, this idea
of this grand world,
this disconnected world,
I saw how possible
it was for us all
to get connected
on a singular thought, or
a moment, or a location,
by our awareness.
And I thought, how lucky I am
to be standing in this location
where so many people would
love to be right now to help,
to be part of this.
LISA GARR: Right.
And I somehow landed
here for some reason.
And it's not a
reason to destroy me.
So what's the other--
what can I make of this?
Because you were still
standing at that point--
MIKKI WILLIS: I was still there.
---and you're having
this epiphany.
Yeah, and instead of
cursing, like there
was something dark
that led me there,
what could be the
bright side of it?
Literally.
And just that thought alone,
that consideration of,
is that even possible,
brought tears to my eyes.
And then I started looking at
all the people, and I thought,
these people are
breathing asbestos.
They know it.
The reports went around.
We all heard it.
And they haven't slept.
I watched men and
women cry when we
were able to save a rescue dog.
They released,
because it was like,
oh, we were able
to save something.
LISA GARR: Something.
And I thought, this
is the human spirit.
This is what we're about
when something so much
bigger than our own
identities and egos
and all that stuff happens--
LISA GARR: Yeah.
---that it forces us together
as one human organism,
in the name of something good.
And I just, in
that moment, I was
clear that the rest of my life
was going to be about this.
And I'm going to do my
best to never forget this.
Was going to be about that
moment, of that connection,
that oneness, that feeling.
It's as if you're describing
a near death experience.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
That's exactly
what it is, really.
Right, where all consciousness
is connected in one.
So at what point did
you realize that that
was your mission in life?
I mean, how did you connect
all of that together?
How long did you stay there?
I was only there
for 72 hours, but it
seemed like it was months.
Literally months.
But then I was stuck in
New York for a while.
LISA GARR: Right.
They put us up, and gave
us a cell phone, and said,
you can't leave for
another two weeks
or so, that we were
kind of stuck there.
But it didn't really
occur fully to me
for-- it started to unfold over
the course of the next year.
I came back to Hollywood
where I had been living.
I put everything
I had in storage.
And I went to live in a friend's
guest house in the Napa Valley.
And I had secured a
writing job to write
a sequel to an iconic classic.
So it gave me money
to survive for a year,
and to really contemplate.
There was part of me that
was rejecting my industry.
Because I had a very successful
career as a music video
director, and I looked
back at that body of work
that I had done, and I
was so clear that I can't
sell these products anymore.
I can't support these
musicians or people
that I don't necessarily
think are putting the best
messages out in the world.
I can't degrade women
in these videos anymore.
I can't do any of this anymore.
And I don't want to represent
anything that's misinformation,
or that creates more fear and
disconnection in the world.
And I thought, what
do I do though?
I don't know where to
go in my industry--
LISA GARR: What do
I do instead, yeah.
---to actually serve
this higher purpose.
And it took me a year or two.
Because it hadn't been created.
It had been created, yeah.
And so it took me a
year to really create
a game plan of how I would
reenter Hollywood and put
really the bat signal out
in the sky for everyone else
who was feeling the way
I felt, to say, let's
come play together.
And that was really
how Elevate was born.
That's what created elevate.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
And so I want you to take
a look at this trailer
to get an idea
from what the story
and the founder of
this company created,
and what it looks like now.
Take a look at this trailer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All right.
So after you created this
incredible company, or idea,
concept, when you came
back to Hollywood,
did you encounter resistance?
Did you encounter,
are you crazy?
What are you thinking?
There's no market for that.
Were you told there's no market
for consciousness in media?
Well, I kind of
knew at the time
that there really
wasn't anything that
was-- there were a lot of
channels that were attempting
to go in that direction.
But the particular style that
I was into, none of those
really spoke to me.
I wanted something that would
speak to the mainstream, that
was still sexy and edgy and cool
and hip and all of that stuff.
LISA GARR: So you
brought in that.
So there wasn't-- well, I
wouldn't take credit for it
myself, but I
certainly helped rally
some of the pioneers that were
also wanting the same thing.
And we came together, and we
created Elevate Film Festival.
LISA GARR: OK.
That was the-- so Elevate
Film Festival started first,
and then the film company
started after that?
No, actually the film
company started first.
LISA GARR: OK.
And I was supporting really the
work I was doing as a director,
as a filmmaker.
But after I came back into
Hollywood and decided,
it's really time to
bring-- I had experienced
other communities, these counter
cultures that were also very,
very positive, that
were developing new ways
to really live together.
New ways of collaborating
and not competing
from company to company.
Different, you know, from
the Burning Man communities,
to a lot of other tribal
councils that were starting
to bring in some
ancient modalities
into the modern
world of business.
And so within all of these
different organizations,
there are some really
extraordinary people with a lot
of new techniques that
would allow for us
to operate and to utilize
some of the standard industry
Hollywood practices,
but to really not
be at the mercy of the system.
So to answer your question,
no, I really didn't receive
much resistance, you know.
It's a matter of
not trying to force
or change the existing system.
Like Bucky Fuller
said something cool,
that I'll try to slaughter it
if I really try to quote him.
But it was pretty much
along the lines of,
instead of trying to shut
down an existing system,
just build something
over here that's
so much better and
works so much better
that people start to
get attracted to that.
Right?
I slaughtered that, I know.
That's what you did, though.
But that was really
the method of,
let's just create
something that's
so fun, that feels so much
better and so much more
fulfilling to be
part of, that people
will start to migrate over.
And that's what--
LISA GARR: That's what the
festival became, right?
That's what the
festival became.
So what was the festival?
Explain that.
Because it was a
great, great concept.
A lot of fun.
MIKKI WILLIS: Thank
you, thank you.
That's how we met.
-Yes.
MIKKI WILLIS: Really.
-It is, yes.
And it goes beyond.
I'll tell you a story in a sec.
So you asked people, in a
way, of kind of an award
show type of feel, right?
Yeah, it was an
international challenge.
LISA GARR: Challenge.
And it really
came from a desire
to find out what's
right with the world.
Because when I came
back, I was kind of glued
to the television,
because I wanted
to watch all the reports that
were happening around 9/11.
And there was so
much misinformation.
Having been there, there were a
lot of things that had come up,
that suddenly became "truth"
through the mainstream news--
LISA GARR: That's interesting.
---that was not really
the way it went down.
And so I thought,
wow, how interesting
that is, that a
rumor gets started,
and every station
just adapts to that
and starts to parrot
that information,
when it has no grounds
in reality whatsoever.
LISA GARR: Like what
was an example of that?
Oh, just time frames
of when things happened,
and when the Red Cross
came in, and who did what,
and all of that,
which was not the way
we remember it happening.
And so there was really
this feeling inside,
of like-- and also, more focus
on the war against terror
than the heroes, the amazing
humans that were there, doing
extraordinary feats of heroism.
And I wasn't seeing
enough of that
on television to really see
how neighborhoods in New York
were coming together.
And it was extraordinary, and
it was beautiful, actually.
And so there was this sense
of really wanting to find out
what's right with the world.
Because the network news shows
humanity at its worst, really.
LISA GARR: What's wrong.
Right.
And the fear.
It does feed very fast.
It's like a frenzy.
MIKKI WILLIS: It
really is, yeah.
So it was really a call
to say to filmmakers
all over the world, show us
what's right with the world.
What's right with your
community or your culture?
What is a stereotype that
needs to be broken that you can
give us another viewpoint of?
And so Elevate Film Festival
was this call internationally
that we would send out,
and we would produce
20 to 26 11-minute films.
And we'd fly these
filmmakers in,
and we'd show their
movies back to back
in a large amphitheater,
like the Kodak theater,
or the Nokia.
And 6,000 people
would show up to see
what's right with the world.
And it was so inspiring
for people to walk away
and to actually see that
our future has the potential
to be truly, truly amazing.
Oh, and the human nature
that came out in these films.
It was people helping people.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
It was dealing with
adversity and overcoming it.
It was so powerful.
And that they had
seven days to make it.
MIKKI WILLIS:
Yeah, that's right.
And it had to be seven minutes?
Well, seven to 11 minutes.
LISA GARR: Seven to 11 minutes.
Seven to 11 minute short film.
And then we broadened it to
music videos and commercials,
and really every form
of media that we thought
needed to be really elevated.
And it was an incredible
experience, that ultimately
brought together a lot of the
communities to be in one place
together, to
acknowledge that it's
really time to start
utilizing media
in a powerful, positive way.
Well, that was a huge
vision, and it stuck.
And people were
excited about it.
And it did elevate people.
And it showed the best side
of human nature in all ways.
Of the people making the
films, and how they would
collaborate together,
and the breakdowns,
and the breakthroughs.
All the way down to the
showing of the films.
And it winds up that one
of the people in the films
was my neighbor.
And so it was great,
the way-- I didn't even
know that person the way
that they were displayed
in the film, because he
never really let me see
that side of what he was doing.
MIKKI WILLIS: I
didn't know this.
Yeah, I know.
I never shared that with you.
Of what he was really truly
doing in the community.
He was building cars
for short people
and bringing up the
pedals so that they
could drive in cars that were
refitted for shorter people.
And I mean, I never knew that.
And I had to go all the way
to Film Festival to see that.
MIKKI WILLIS:
Yeah, that's right.
It was great, though, just to
see all the things that were--
so you brought about,
and we actually
have a clip of some of the
films from Elevate Films,
the festival, so that you
could really see and get a feel
for what it was all about.
Take a look at this.
It's so interesting,
too, because they don't
get the script until
the morning that they're
starting production.
We have a celebration
of individuality here.
Because we're going
to make you cry.
We're going to make you laugh.
We're going to make
you contemplate life.
Those are all of
my favorite things.
Hey, John.
Why 2012?
-Its secret?
It can give you
anything you want.
Anything.
Shelley Berman is
teaching poetry?
He's a comic!
We have a biofuel Hummer
here at Angel's Nest.
We worked as a team, together.
We didn't care about who's
the Jew, who's the Muslim,
or who's the Christian.
We're not just filmmakers here.
We're the mouthpiece of
tomorrow making changes today.
And I got to be a judge at
one of those film festivals
here at the Ford
amphitheater, and that
was such a great experience.
What a great experience
of community.
And now, you can't very
well do all of that
and not bring in all
that you're talking
about into your company.
Because you have to walk
your talk, ultimately.
You can't produce a film
festival about consciousness,
and oneness, and all of these
community focused issues,
and then turn around and trash
the planet and your families.
I mean, you can't do that.
And that's actually a
very clear distinction.
Because not many people
would take it into the homes
and into the families.
And you do.
You've made a very
conscious deci--
is that part of the vision
and the mission of Elevate?
Yeah, it really is.
It's really about
implementation,
so that all of these
concepts are more than ideas
and more than the latest fads.
But all of us really, it's
time for us to start walking
the talk in every single way.
And you know, we're
doing our best.
We still have, I
would say, a ways
to go to be a total
green company,
and to reduce our
waste and everything,
our footprint on this planet.
But the idea that
you have about,
you all live in a
community, basically.
Well, yeah, basically we do.
Just recently, my family and I,
we moved just across the street
from the community, because we
have a 1 and 1/2 year old baby,
and we were just
feeling that we needed
a little bit more privacy.
But that was part
of the commitment.
We had offices in downtown
LA, and three years ago we
moved an hour and 20
minutes outside of LA
to a quaint little
valley of 8,000 people.
And we started to-- we got
four homes on four acres,
and so we were living and
working together, and really
experiencing, through
an experiment,
you know, this thing we always
talk about, which is community.
What does it really mean?
Growing your own food--
Growing our own food.
---and meals together.
And learning about composting,
and all of this stuff.
And also, I would say, the
most important element,
as far as I'm concerned, was the
interpersonal dynamics of, how
do we live together as people?
Because, you know, we're not
really good at it, in general,
out there.
It's a real challenge for us
to even be with our own family
sometimes.
There are so many jokes
that comedians tell about,
if you want to know how
enlightened you are,
go home for the holidays.
LISA GARR: Right.
And it's like, but that's real!
Like, what is that
that keeps us at odds
and disconnected or constantly
frustrated with each other?
And so we all came together
in this experience of saying,
how do we work every day
together, live together, have
dinners together, do what
we call the inner work
together, which is really the
evolution of our own awareness.
To have conscious
clearings with each other,
instead of gossiping.
Or holding things
against each other.
We'll get together
and say, you know,
I've been really
hanging onto this thing.
I need to really let go.
And there's this thing you
do, and maybe it's all me,
but we need to really
put this out in the open.
So it's not this hidden thing
that continues to separate
us and harm our friendship.
LISA GARR: Wow.
MIKKI WILLIS: And it was
intense and wonderful.
Really wonderful.
And then on top of that,
you brought in speakers,
and you would have little
events there, and--
MIKKI WILLIS: That's right.
---shamans, and people
that really were
there to contribute to
raising the consciousness
of the environment.
So then that carried
through in your work.
That's right.
We would invite the connected
communities to come in
and to join us, so
that we weren't just
this little exclusive
group on its own island,
but that we were constantly
intermingling, at least
once or twice a month, with
other communities to see how
they're living, to
show how we are living,
to just really talk about it.
What are we learning
from each other?
And what can we do
in our workspace
to transform our environment?
Because we spend more than
half of our lives at work.
And so many people
are miserable at work.
LISA GARR: Yes.
How do we become
more creative such
that we can make our livings
that we need to make,
so that we can pay
for the things,
that we really don't need, but
that we have, and be happy?
Be happy people.
And then a film
came out of that.
A kind of movement or
environment of free energy.
There was a whole conversation
that you were in about creating
free energy, and there has
been an ongoing conversation
about that.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
So tell me about that video.
What is that about,
the free energy video?
We did a music video with our
friends, The Luminaries, which
are a conscious hip hop group.
An amazing group
here in Los Angeles.
And so when there is information
that we want to get out
to the world, particularly
younger audiences,
we devise ways to do that.
You know, we can sit down
and have some talking head
talk about it, which is boring.
LISA GARR: Right.
Or we can put it into a song.
And so we've done three or four
songs now with The Luminaries,
where we'll give them pages of
research on a particular topic,
and they'll write an
incredible song out of it,
and they'll go into the
studio and record it,
and then we'll
produce a music video.
LISA GARR: Oh!
-And we'll release that.
And it'll bring awareness
to, in this particular case,
it was the free energy
video, was really
about all of the patents
that have been locked away,
that hold the secrets to
inventions that have been
either recently created
or decades ago, That
hold the potential
to literally solve
our power issues in this world.
It can completely
end our need for oil.
For everything right now
that we're struggling over,
and even really
creating war over.
There are these devices by
using, generating the power
of our organic systems,
generate all the power that we
will ever need on this planet.
And so the question is, then why
have they been so suppressed?
Well, you know, greed and all
the stuff that has suppressed
all good information forever.
LISA GARR: And why would you
put that valuable information
into a rap song?
I mean, did it translate?
MIKKI WILLIS: It did, yeah.
LISA GARR: It did?
MIKKI WILLIS: Well,
I'll let the people
decide that on their own.
LISA GARR: Yeah, well you have.
Absolutely.
I mean, that's the key to
our future right there.
Yeah, is how to you
bring awareness to that.
I guess you do need awareness
in many different forms.
In documentaries, in
music, in conversation.
And what you have done is
you've brought it to people
in many different ways.
Why do you put, and I've
noticed this in your company,
such an important
emphasis on social media?
What is the mission behind that?
Well actually, in 2008 we
stopped the film festival.
I went on a really
tremendous journey to Peru,
and spent some time
with a tribe up
on the very top of the Andes.
And I had another
awakening in my life.
Life, our growth, is a
series of awakenings.
Right?
And it can be stimulated
by deaths, or wonderful--
LISA GARR: Transformational
moments, yeah.
That's right.
Peak moments.
And I had one of
those peak moments.
And it was shortly after
our last film festival,
in October of 2008 which
was a strain on our company,
because the economic
collapse and everything that
had happened, a lot of
our sponsors pulled out.
And it was the first
time that we had actually
lost money on an event.
And we were really
questioning, how do we do this?
How do we bring
this to the people,
and also not go bankrupt,
and stay alive here,
and have the life that
we choose to have?
So I went to Peru, just to kind
of get clear on all of that.
And the guidance that I received
from that, from some very deep
meditations, was to stop
the film festival for now,
and to get involved
in the internet.
That the internet
had been created--
LISA GARR: You got
that from Peru?
I did, I did, yeah.
LISA GARR: That's amazing.
That the internet
had been created
as this incredible world
wide web of information,
that is one of the
only things that exists
right now that's uncensored.
That the people, we can
share our information,
and our truths,
without-- it's not like
a network that's owned by--
LISA GARR: No,
it's people driven.
---a bigger company.
Totally people driven.
And we can reach people on
the other side of the world
with the click of a button.
And it became clear
that we weren't doing
enough work in the internet.
And so we developed
some technologies
that would help some of
these conscious media--
these projects, to
get out to the world.
And we really decided to focus
on social media at that point,
so we could reach more people.
And you being at the
forefront of that,
have you noticed that the
trends have moved now--
have tipped to the
side of social media,
as opposed to traditional
media in this genre,
in the consciousness genre?
I think so.
Yeah.
I think everyone
sees it as a way.
We're all hoping that television
will catch up someday.
You know, that's why I
support shows like this,
that also have your freedom to
talk about subjects like this,
which the people are so hungry
for, without being interrupted
by a commercial for McDonald's.
LISA GARR: Right.
Right?
LISA GARR: Yeah, yeah.
Which I'm witnessing that now,
when I'm letting my little one
watch, you know, Disney
Jr. And the show's amazing,
but then it's interrupted by
some propaganda commercial.
LISA GARR: Right.
Here we have yoga commercials,
and Deepak will say something.
So important.
Yeah, it keeps it
all on the same--
MIKKI WILLIS:
Really, so important.
But I do see that
there are a lot
of-- even television is trending
towards a massive shift.
And will it ever,
within our lifetimes,
be completely transformed?
Probably not.
But it doesn't even
matter, because the people
are voting with their dollars.
And they're starting
to spend more time
in choosing what they want.
And it's commercial free.
It's uninterrupted.
They're choosing to watch the
movies they choose to watch.
And gradually, they're
understanding the impact
of everything that
we put in our bodies,
from information to our
food, literally creates
our experience of this life.
And so it's our responsibility
to literally feed ourselves
the best, and only the best.
-Yes.
And I love the fact that Elevate
and what we're doing at Gaiam,
it's so well aligned.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
Because you're coming
from a conscious place.
You're consuming
conscious media,
and you're also putting
out conscious media.
And that's the whole point.
And if we could have more
companies like yours,
and Gaiam, and
others, it just will
grow the entire genre of this.
And before we know
it, it'll be tipped
into the side of
bringing consciousness
into everyone's living room.
MIKKI WILLIS: And it's
a really big thing.
Yeah.
MIKKI WILLIS: Because
what I realized
a few years ago was this.
There was a point I kind
of became an activist,
and was angry at
my own industry.
And I realized, Hollywood
is just a store.
And stores put on the
shelves what sells.
That's all it is.
And as long as we keep ordering
the kind of programming
that the masses are
ordering out there,
Hollywood's going to
keep providing it.
LISA GARR: Yeah.
But the moment that those
products stay on the shelves,
and people aren't
ordering them, they'll
start ordering more of this.
And that's what's
gradually happening.
And I would say rapidly
happening right now.
LISA GARR: It is, yeah.
People are going,
I didn't even know
I wanted this kind of a
show, but I saw an episode,
and it made me feel good.
Which is what people want at
the core, is to feel good.
LISA GARR: Yes, absolutely.
MIKKI WILLIS: And so it's
happening, which is amazing.
Absolutely.
Well there's a film that
came your way which I think
is a perfect example of what
this whole conversation is
about.
And it's this movie
called "Be Brave."
MIKKI WILLIS: That's right.
And I want you to explain
how this came into your life.
And this story is
absolutely chilling.
Well, yeah.
I have been waiting
for a movie like this
for a number of years.
I took 4 and 1/2 years
off of my directing career
to create a distribution
platform that I
thought would take a year.
But it took 3 and
1/2 years to create.
And then I just started to
open up to the possibility
of directing another movie.
But everything that
was coming my way
was-- I had made
a comment one day.
I said, I don't want
to direct a movie.
I want to direct the
movie every time.
And I'm not just
here to make movies.
I want to say what I really
want to say out there.
Something that I
can say, that was
the top of my point of
my personal consciousness
at that moment.
That's what I wanted to say.
And I couldn't find anything
that really lit me up.
And lo and behold, the moment
I really announced, this
is the next leg of my adventure,
to direct the movie that I
really want to share with
the world, a friend of mine
got a hold of me, and he said,
I have stumbled upon a pretty
interesting story
that I think is
right for you and your company.
And the long and
short of it is this.
There is an aspiring
filmmaker out of Canada
who documented his entire life.
Self portraits.
And I mean, like, I don't
know anyone who's ever
documented their life
like this young man named
Daniel Northcott.
LISA GARR: Wow.
He would set up the camera
while he was-- from a distance,
it may look like
vanity, but the kid
knew exactly what he was doing.
He would just be shaving,
and he'd set up the camera.
He would be in a
conversation with a friend,
and he would just set
up a camera or two.
It pulls you in.
I mean, it was like a witness.
-That's right.
-Yes.
You don't notice the camera
when you're watching--
MIKKI WILLIS: That's right.
---the clips.
And his passion in
life, his mission,
was to prove that the
world-- prove to the world
that people are interconnected.
And that becomes such
a cliche, but there's
a science behind it.
And there's a science
that actually proves
that even though there's
physical space between us,
that we are
energetically connected.
And so he started
to travel the world
to meet with
indigenous cultures,
and just really learn about
humanity at 20 years old.
For nine years he travelled, and
went to 42 different countries.
And along the way,
he would pick up
some memorabilia, just
to remember each culture
that he was visiting.
And it could be a pot
handle, or a piece of stone,
or a piece of wood.
His journey-- the last
leg of his journey
took him to a Mayan cave
in the Yucatan Peninsula.
And all of this is
on footage, on tape.
He was being guided
by a Mexican guide,
and his friend was
translating Spanish.
They got hours into this cave,
and they came to a Mayan burial
site, where the bodies
had been left that were
sacrificed to the gods.
So mostly women and children.
And they came on
a pile of bones.
And the kid was
obsessed with circles.
Daniel Northcott was
obsessed with circles,
because he realized that
from the cells and the atoms
in our bodies, to the spherical
nature of the universe,
for the cosmos and
all of the planets,
that we are these circles
within circles, that have
trapped ourselves within boxes.
Within cubicles, and homes,
and we need to be out in nature
to reconnect with
the source, right?
So he found this
little perfectly
round bone in this Mayan cave.
And he told the guide
that he wanted to take it.
And the guide went on for
15 minutes to tell him,
do not take that.
LISA GARR: Don't take these.
Super dangerous.
You will get sick, and
your family may get sick.
Please listen to me.
And the kid just kept--
he actually later
said it was like Gollum, from
Lord of the Rings, saying,
my precious, take me.
LISA GARR: He can't.
He couldn't.
He was obsessed with it.
It was like an
energy was coming--
He's on camera saying, please
tell him, I want it so bad,
and tell him why, and tell him
I have a bond with the gods,
and they'll understand.
And the guide said,
do not take it.
He took it.
And took this little round
bone, and a little bit later, he
was diagnosed with bone cancer.
And he documented his
entire death process,
up until the final
days of his life.
And so the family
got a hold of me--
LISA GARR: And he put
together it was the bone.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah, at one
point he put it together.
He realized, oh my god, I have
cancer of the bone marrow.
I have leukemia.
I took a bone from a Mayan cave.
Oh my god.
And he told his family
where to find it.
Go get it.
Take it back for me.
He was too sick at that point,
but he wanted to take it back.
And they had a search party that
looked for it, and it was gone.
And shortly after his death,
the family-- it just appeared.
It reappeared.
LISA GARR: I want to have you
guys take a look at the trailer
here, because this
shows the story of what
Mikki has been talking about.
It's definitely chilling.
Take a look at this
"Be Brave" trailer.
At 29 years old, a Vancouver
filmmaker was told he
only had months left to live.
But instead of putting
the camera down,
he turned the lens on himself.
This is the story of
my brother, Daniel,
his extraordinary
adventures to 42 countries,
and a choice he
made in a Mayan cave
that may have ended his life.
Dan was an aspiring filmmaker.
Over a 10 year period,
he documented just
about every moment of
his incredible life.
His video camera was
like a microscope
through which he studied his
two favorite subjects, nature
and humanity.
He saw all living things as
one brilliant and beautiful
organism.
You are made of a
trillion trembling orbs,
and each one of them is
made of a trillion more.
So is the galaxy.
So is the ocean.
So is the one you
love and long for.
And when you look into
their eyes, what is
this truth that you will see?
Circles in circles.
He's about three or four years
old, and it starts to rain.
He's turning in circles.
He's going, Mommy, Mommy,
the stars are kissing me!
-Yeah.
-This kid was a star child.
He was connected.
As a way to remain connected
with each new culture
he explored, Daniel
always collected
small pieces of nature.
A stone, a shell,
a fossil, a bone.
In April of 2007, his journey
led him deep into the darkness
of a Mayan cave.
It was there, among the remains
of an ancient burial ground,
that my brother made an
immeasurable mistake.
Look at that.
It's a joint or something.
They say that people have
taken these bones home,
and as soon as they get
home, they get sick.
This is the history.
I want it so bad.
The moment he came
in contact with it,
he knew it magnetically.
He wanted it.
He needed it.
He knew the gods
would understand.
He felt they had a bond.
This would just
make it stronger.
Not long after my brother
Daniel took a bone from a Mayan
burial site, he was
diagnosed with leukemia,
a bone marrow cancer.
The average person would live
about three to six months.
I want to stay and love!
It's not time.
I don't want to go.
So if you were sitting
on this side of the desk,
what would you do?
Realizing that removing such
an object from a sacred site
was wrong, Daniel wanted
to return the bone.
He looked everywhere for it.
But he just couldn't find it.
It was as if it had disappeared.
After a fierce and painful
battle with leukemia,
my little brother made his
transition at 29 years young.
After Daniel's death,
as we were going
through his personal
belongings, the bone reappeared.
Out of respect for
the Mayan people,
I will retrace my brother's
steps to the cave in Mexico
to return the bone to its
rightful resting place.
This new footage will be
used to thread together
my brother's epic adventure.
Gonna walk the earth.
Gonna walk the earth again.
When you called me
and said, take a look
at this short video, and
I went and looked at it,
I couldn't speak.
I had that, oh my god, this is--
so many things came flooding
into my head at one moment.
But just the idea that prophecy
is so real and intentionality
is so strong, that it will last
generations upon generations.
And to actually cause
a death of somebody,
if you break into the prophecy,
is so incredibly powerful.
There's so many directions,
but how did you then
get in contact with the sister?
Well, the friend
who brought it to me
was in contact with the family.
And as soon as I saw--
LISA GARR: [INAUDIBLE]
He gave me the
pitch, and I thought,
this can't be that amazing.
And then he said,
there's some existing
footage you should see.
And he sent it to me, a link.
And I watched 40
minutes of footage,
and I cried, and I was just
dumbfounded, and I said,
this is my next movie.
And I said, I need
to meet the family.
And I wrote a long letter to
the family that he forwarded.
And I just said, this is
what I've been waiting for.
And I relate to Daniel so much.
Where he comes from,
and everything-- really
everything about him.
There were so many parallels
between myself and Daniel,
when I was in my
20s particularly.
And I felt like I knew him,
just from my first glance of him
and the first word I heard
him speak, I thought,
I know this young man.
And so I met with the family.
They flew in from Canada, and
we spent several days together,
and I fell in love with
both Daniel's sister Erin,
and his mother Tanya.
And then later, I flew to
Canada with my wife and child,
and we spent a week
there with them, just
getting to know each other.
LISA GARR: Right.
And just in January of this
month, we-- one of the things I
said to the family before
I solidified our agreement,
was I said, well for
me, I said, first
of all, where is this bone now?
And they said, it's
buried off of an island,
just off of Vancouver.
And I said, the
bone has to go back.
LISA GARR: Yeah.
And if you're willing
to take it back,
I think that's the backbone of
this movie, of us completing
the circle, and
undoing what your son
and brother did, the circle that
he broke, the sacred circle.
And if you're willing
to do that, I'm in.
And so they're super
courageous women.
Amazing women.
And they said, totally.
LISA GARR: Yeah.
And so in January, we
actually took five cameras,
and we went back to
the Yucatan Peninsula,
and the family returned the
bone to the burial ground.
They had to actually go through
this totally treacherous cave.
LISA GARR: Did you find the
shaman that took you in?
The guide?
We ended up with
exactly the same guide.
All kinds of synchronistic
magic happened.
The moment we pulled
up to this little town,
a young man came out and said,
hey, what are you guys doing?
And we said, we're
going to the caves.
And he said, oh, my
father leads a tour there.
I'll have him come
and lead you guys.
And he shows up,
and it's the guy.
And we were like, whoa.
And once we got into the
cave, we knew that that was
big enough of a story to tell.
But the story expanded.
As soon as he saw this
object, he said, I remember.
I remember, four years
ago, telling that young man
not to take that object.
LISA GARR: And was
he shocked when
you told him that he had died?
He was shocked and
not surprised at all.
But he said, let me tell you the
mythology behind this object.
And he started to break
out this amazing story
of this ancient relic that was
planted by the ancient Mayans.
And he said, ultimately
what came out of this
was that it was more powerful
than any of the bones
in the burial ground.
It was actually a
relic that was planted
to protect the burial site.
And they have a name for
it, and a history behind it,
which we're going to wait until
people see the film to actually
discover what it is.
And then we spent--
oh, the other thing
that happened in the cave,
as he's telling the story,
was Daniel's dying words never
made sense to the family.
They were pretty obscure.
And they always said, well,
maybe he was on chemo,
and who knows where
that came from.
But as this man is
telling the story on film,
Erin goes, oh my god,
Daniel's dying words.
They made perfect sense.
They connected with
this mythology.
And Daniel knew nothing
about this mythology,
but he somehow downloaded
it right before he died.
And then we spent a week
traveling around meeting
priests and shamans to find
out if this mythology was
accurate for this Mayan culture.
And everyone
corroborated the story,
told us deeper details about it.
And it was really
spooky, really powerful.
And it had a lot of us,
which were, I would say up
to that point, there
were a lot of us
that were skeptical about--
LISA GARR: Healthy skepticism.
Healthy skepticism.
But we were kind of like,
look, if you believe
it's going to cause
cancer, then it can cause--
anything can cause cancer.
LISA GARR: Oh, interesting.
But it could just
be a rock, or a bone.
Like, let's not put too
much energy into it.
After meeting with these elders
and these people, the way
they broke it down from a
place not of superstition,
but a place of
understanding that energy
can be infused into
these inanimate objects.
And they were really feeling
like the people of the West,
particularly, need to really
understand the sacredness
of these objects.
LISA GARR: Yes.
We all left with a new
respect for the possibility
that perhaps this
item, thing, actually
did create the cancer that took
the life of Daniel Northcott.
It's actually very possible.
-That's what I got.
That's what I got from it.
And how powerful and potent
these prophecies are.
And, if you take it
down to our level,
any intention really,
really can be,
when you see the manifestation
of it in that way.
MIKKI WILLIS: It's wild.
It's incredible.
And then you created a
social media campaign
so that you could
raise money to complete
the film, which I witnessed.
Absolutely incredible.
MIKKI WILLIS: More
than witnessed.
You helped by putting
us on your radio show.
So thank you so much for all
of your continued support
through the years.
I believe in it.
Yes.
I do think this
movie needs to get
out and get made and so forth.
And it shows, also, the power
of story and social media,
and when you connect
it all together,
how it really does work.
MIKKI WILLIS: That's right.
Yes.
We raised $184,000 online
to complete "Be Brave."
And we did it through a
crowdfunding platform.
And it was really
heartwarming to feel
all of our connected family
and friends and community step
forward to say, this
film has to be made.
LISA GARR: Yes, it does.
Because not only is it
a-- it's a perfect vehicle
to bring this kind of a message
to the mainstream audiences,
because it's kind of like
a Blair Witch meets Into
the Wild, meets Indiana Jones.
LISA GARR: Right,
yeah, that's you.
You could do all sorts
of things with it.
Because it's a compelling
mystery, but at the same time,
the underlying message
is to respect the sacred,
to complete the circles in our
lives that have been broken,
and to really
consider how connected
we are with each other and
all that is, all of nature.
And that's exactly what
your company is about.
That's exactly the message
that you put out there.
And that's exactly what
we've been talking about.
The power of oneness,
and to really
live in that place of
connectivity and community
through any way.
MIKKI WILLIS: Yeah.
It could be through humor.
It could be through media.
It could be through story.
All of that.
MIKKI WILLIS: That's right.
And it could be through family.
And I just want to show this
quick little piece of you
and your little baby son.
Of you in this pure state
of connection and love.
Take a look at this video.
I have to show this,
because I'm a mom.
OK, here we go.
Going on a tour with
my best friend Azai.
We haven't done this
in a little while.
Can I have a kiss?
Yeah, that's a kiss!
AZAI: [LAUGHS]
Yeah!
That's our newest thing.
Mwah!
We love it!
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Mwah, yeah!
Mwah!
[LAUGHTER]
That was a wet one.
Let's go see the water, buddy.
Let's go see the water.
I just had to show
that, because it
is so important for us
to laugh at ourselves,
and to make fun of
everything that we do.
Because laughter alleviates
energy, and elevates energy.
So thank you so much, Mikki.
Oh, Lisa, it's
been my pleasure.
Thank you so much.
-Absolutely.
Thanks for sharing
the time with me,
and all that you share in
the world and the alignment
that you have with the
mission of Gaiam as well.
So thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
Just what you've been doing
for years, I want to say.
Way before it was popular.
Thank you.
You got that right!
Thanks, Mikki.
MIKKI WILLIS: Thank you.
If you want to watch a
replay of my interview
with Mikki Willis, or
share it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com for
a lot more thought
provoking films and
interviews and so much more.
You can sign up for a free trial
today by going to gaiamtv.com,
and until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.